Themberchaud is an Adult Red [[Dragon]] and was the [[Wyrmsmith]] of [[Gracklstugh]].

Being the [[Wyrmsmith]] meant Themberchaud was supposed to light the fires of the Forges of [[Gracklstugh]] each day, becoming the driving power to the [[Gracklstugh|City]]'s wealth. Every morning, Themberchaud made its round around the City and enflamed each of its major forges in flames, keeping the city ablaze and visible from far away.

Themberchaud's needs were tended to by the [[Keepers of the Flame]], under the leadership of [[Gartokkar]]. The [[Keepers of the Flame|Keepers]] were able to create a Dragon Egg from Themberchaud without needing a mate. Unknown to Themberchaud however, the [[Keepers of the Flame|Keepers]] intended to replace him with the Red [[Dragon]] Wyrmling that would hatch out of the egg.

During the [[Derro]] Unrest in [[Gracklstugh]], the Egg was stolen. The [[Keepers of the Flame]] recruited [[The Party]] to retrieve the egg from the [[Whorlstone Tunnels]], which they managed to do. However, since [[The Party]], especially [[Drathuul]], were quite impressed they decided to tell [[Themberchaud]] the truth about the intention of the [[Keepers of the Flame|Keepers]]: They intended to hatch the egg and replace [[Themberchaud]] with the Wyrmling.

Instead, [[The Party]] hatched the Wyrmling and named him [[Firestarter]], dealt a serious blow to the [[Keepers of the Flame|Keepers]] and returned [[Firestarter]] to Themberchaud. Enraged, Themberchaud turned on the City of [[Gracklstugh]] in the midst of the [[Derro]] uprising and started to burn [[Gracklstugh]] to a crisp. While [[The Party]] escaped, most of [[Gracklstugh]] was laid to waste in what would later be called the [[Blaze of Gracklstugh]].