---
aliases: Session 3-20, Octdas 3, Octdas 3 514, Session 3-20 - Octdas 3 514, Session 3-20 - Octdas 3 514 - Into the Dark Forest, with a Drip of Blood
---
Previous: [[Session 3-19 - Back Into the Dark Hole|Session 3-19]] | Next: [[Session 3-21]]

## [[The Party]]
- [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]]
- [[Horatio]]
- [[Bill]]
- [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]]
- [[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]]
- [[Paxton Umbra|Paxton]]
- [[Aboouck]]
- [[Enphine]]
- [[Castle-8]]

# One week earlier
The week before, before [[The Party]] went back to [[Ebonwatch]], the [[Sootwall Observatory|Gnomes]] or the [[Tebinor Elves|Elves]], [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] scouted in the [[Heart of the Forest]] using a [[Familiar]] in the shape of a bat. In doing so he saw an [[Open Place]] with a lot of bird screeches, a [[Burned-Out Tower]] and a [[Bridge Made out of Bones]].
He shared this with [[The Party]], and they decided they should ponder on it for the upcoming week and decide what to do next week.

# Ebonwatch Under Fire and Flying Rabbits
In the time leading towards the moments of the regrouping [[Ebonwatch]] saw some strange events, mostly centralized around the training grounds. On the 3rd day a big fire broke out. A lot of the people in the town thought this might be related to a strange figure which [[The Party]] had seen earlier, a jester who was spotted a few weeks ago in the [[Black Barrel Inn|Inn]] performing tricks. This figure left, however the strange occurrences of fires did not, on the 6th day this happened again, so it couldn't be related, or could it?

The [[Borout Bescond|Blacksmith]] had suffered from these fires and required repairs. People had also spotted a [[Aboouck|Flying Rabbit]] high in the sky one day.

# Into the forest
[[Horatio]] asked if [[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]] maybe was able to lift a curse of a [[Loadstone|Stone]] he was holding, but was unsuccessful in doing so.
Not long after [[The Party]] made its way towards [[Tebinor Elves|Elves]], but not before [[Enphine]] came rushing towards [[The Party]]. [[The Party]] made a quick stop at [[Mythana]] to meet up with [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]]. While they were there [[Bill]] made his way to [[Tyderius]] and wanted to whisper something in his ear. He went through great trouble trying not to strain his back and leaned over to hear what [[Bill]] had to say.
[[The Party]] decided to follow the green lights they saw last time again through the [[Heart of the Forest]]. Noticeable was how [[Horatio]] seemed to move slower and seemed more tired than he did in the past. When entering the forest they were met by the [[Pixie|Pixies]], who notified them that the [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]] were the evil/corruption in the forest and should be dealt with. [[The Party]] mostly ignored this chatter and headed out to follow the green lights. The lights led them to the dark dead forest, [[The Party]] followed them in. On their way there was an eerie silence, no sound could be heard, until they started hearing a lot of birds screeching. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] recognized this route from the scouting from last week. he notified [[The Party]], resulting in [[Bill]] and [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] going moving ahead carefully, scouting ahead. 
[[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] noticeably started climbing a tree and sat there on a branch. [[Bill]] started hiding behind a bush. A Harpy started fluttering down to warn [[The Party]] "Sacrifice your blood willingly, or we will help you in doing so". At around that time [[Horatio]] finally reach the same place, completely out of breath. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] didn't mind doing this and with a curve walked towards a tree and started cutting himself, but not before asking [[Horatio]] for his groovy tunes, which he was unwilling to give, while mumbling about leaving him behind.
The Harpy said that [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] was allowed to enter the circle, as long as he wasn't a [[Druid]]. He however mentioned he would rather do this with the whole Party. [[The Party]] however seemed to be more reluctant to donate their blood, especially [[Horatio]].

# Roots and wings
[[Castle-8]] brought up the fact that he had no blood to give, after which the Harpy replied that they would then force it out of him instead. [[Castle-8]] saw this as a threat and used [[Misty Step]] to vanish and reappear right next to the Harpy in midair. He grappled her and after having no wings himself they plummeted back down to the ground. The rest of [[The Party]] started aiding in the attack against the Harpy when suddenly a giant root lashed out crushing part of [[The Party]]. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] changed into a [[Bear#Brown Bear|Bear]] and rushed his way towards the purple magic tile in the middle of the open area and put his foot down.

Suddenly everyone in [[The Party]] was surrounded by a thick fog, and a person appeared, together with the magic tile. It was a vision of what happened before playing out in front of them. The person was hooded and had a long beard. He was kneeling down at the magic tile, then moved towards the treeline. The Harpy also appeared in the vision and told the person to sacrifice his blood as she did with [[The Party]]. The person did so and afterward started to harvest some [[Augury Root|Root]] from the treeline and then disappeared into the forest.

When the vision disappeared multiple swarms of ravens started coming down onto [[The Party]], noticeably not attacking [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]]. The Harpy teleported away from the grapple of [[Castle-8]] and directly after seemed to have banished [[Bill]] into an alternative dimension. It got struck down by a blow of [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] leaving it stunned. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] started chewing on the head of the Harpy, downing it.
While [[The Party]] was dealing with the swarms of ravens the giant tree roots were ravaging down on them. [[Aboouck]] enlarged [[Castle-8]] with no apparent side effects; [[Aboouck]] then smudged his bloody soaked body against the tree root; [[Castle-8]] tried to fend off the ravens that wouldn't seem to leave him alone. [[Bill]] ran off towards the light. [[Horatio]] used [[Vortex Warp]] to quickly move towards the magic tile; [[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]] and [[Paxton Umbra|Paxton]] donated their blood as well, just as [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] and [[Bill]]; [[Aboouck]] showered [[Castle-8]] with his blood, which seemed to take the attention of the ravens towards [[Enphine]]; [[Enphine]] then being picked open and heavily bloodied wiped some blood off on the tree after which she slipped on that precise puddle of blood trying to get down from the root. She hit her head hard and went down on the ground. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] quickly healed her back up. The root attacked [[Horatio]] with [[Enphine]] as collateral damage, downing her once again and [[Castle-8]] and [[Aboouck]] at the same time; [[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]] tried to cast [[Mass Healing Word]] to get [[The Party]] back alive, but not before laughing at [[Aboouck]]'s crippling bloodied corpse. [[Aboouck]] was revived by strange necrotic magic draining the life of the people around him. [[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]] redirected his [[Mass Healing Word]] to exclude [[Aboouck]] after that life leeching trick. [[Aboouck]] used [[Magic Missile]] on the last crows resulting in making the people near him [[Invisible]] for everyone except himself due to a unnoticeable side effect earlier when enlarging [[Castle-8]]. [[Horatio]] was still taking a beating from the roots and, in all his brilliance, threw down a [[Bead of Force]] trapping himself in the bubble. The giant root lashed out one last time towards [[Horatio]] sending him skyrocketing and hitting [[Castle-8]] as collateral damage and downing him once more while he was invisible. [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] asked [[Aboouck]] what was happening, he said he was confused as confused as anyone and [[Castle-8]] was nearly dying. [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] asked [[Aboouck]] to guide her towards [[Castle-8]] so she could stabilize him.

# Sticky Fingers
[[Bill]] was trying to harvest the [[Augury Root|Root]] as he had seen the person in the vision do, but some goo sprayed out of the [[Augury Root|Root]] sticking his daggers to his hands. When he tried to pry his dagger off with one of his other daggers his hands got stuck together. [[Paxton Umbra|Paxton]] tried to see what type of goo it was and how to get it off but didn't get much further than knowing it was sticky. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] tried to wash off the goo using water, but it didn't seem effective. However, he realized that it was possible to get it off using acid. [[Bill]] then ran towards [[Enphine]] to ask for the acid he gave to her last week. [[Aboouck]] tried to hold [[Bill]]'s hands steady but this only made [[Enphine]] more anxious causing her to spill more than just a little drop of acid on [[Bill]]'s hands. Meanwhile [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] started harvesting the [[Augury Root|Root]] from the tree based on [[Bill]]'s idea and was tempted to lick it just like the person in the vision did, but he changed his mind. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] noticed the gloves the Harpy was wearing were still lighting up under his [[Detect Magic]] spell and took them off of her. [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] decided she could always use more feathers and plucked some from the Harpy's dead body.
After all of this [[The Party]] decided to follow the green lights again which now showed up on the other side of the clearing.

# Horatio Airlines
High up in the air [[Horatio]] was traveling at his leisure, allowing him to see everything on the [[Shards|Shard]], he saw a massive [[Stone Archway]] far to the north, which was even higher than him. He saw [[Ebonwatch]] far to the south, and he saw the [[Dwarven Mining Camp]] which also happened to be the direction he was heading. Just 20 foot above the ground the bubble popped and [[Horatio]] fell the remaining distance to the ground. The [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]] were surprised to see him and asked what happened. [[Horatio]] explained how he started a touring business and told the [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]] if there was anywhere they wanted to go, he would be able to get them there. He then started drinking some beer with the [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]], who were suddenly very interested in his ventures.  

A little while later the rest of [[The Party]] noticed they were being led back by the lights and ended up back at the [[Dwarven Mining Camp]]. The green lights disappeared and all the dwarves started giving off the same light.

[[Aboouck]] started explaining to the [[Dwarf|Dwarves]] that they were glowing with this light, which the [[Dwarf|Dwarves]] were however unable to see. He said he wanted to investigate how to get it off and that he would need a "subject" to run some tests on. He said he needed the dwarf which was disliked the most. The [[Dwarf|Dwarves]] said that no such thing existed, there was one dwarf which they would like to see funny things happen to, but he was already assassinated in the forest earlier. They asked if [[The Party]] could make sure the thing that was assassinating the [[Dwarf|Dwarves]] was taken care off. [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]] suggested that the least productive [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarf]] could be used as a subject, which they were quick to point out to be the female dwarf with the shortest beard.
[[Enphine]] and [[Aboouck]] both tried to find out the school of magic that was present ion the dwarves which gave them the glow, each in their own ways. They were however unsuccessful, Sir Dixon tried doing so with detect magic and learned it was a type of [[Abjuration Magic]] infused with [[Divination Magic]] and passed this knowledge on before heading out to the tent where [[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]] and [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]] were once again drinking, or were they? While heading towards the tent he noticed [[Scotia Hammerarm]] was wearing a magical Pickaxe.

[[Ru Eir Hydrus|Ru]] wasn't trusting whether or not [[Moldarhim]], the capital city of the [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]] actually existed and suggested that [[The Party]] could transport the raw ore to their capital as the [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]] were still unable to leave the [[Heart of the Forest]]. The [[Tebinor Dwarves|Dwarves]] agreed to do this as long as they sent another [[Dwarf]] with them to ensure nothing was stolen.

### Loot & Rewards
 - [[Gloves of Missile Snaring]]
 - By [[Sam Alderleaf|Sam]]: An certain amount of [[Harpy Feathers]]
 - By [[Sir Dixon Fire|Sir Dixon]]: [[Augury Root|Root]] of the tree of the heart of the forest

### Effects & Repercussions
- The Lights led back to the [[Dwarven Mining Camp]], presenting [[The Party]] with a difficult choice.